add go guide for real time chat and a guide to use terratest with the same project (#639)
nitrictech/docs: docs/guides/go/realtime-messaging.mdx

---
title_seo: Building your first WebSocket Application with Go and Nitric

> description: Use the Nitric framework to easily build and deploy Go WebSocket applications for AWS, Azure or Google Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use the Nitric framework to easily build and deploy Go WebSocket applications for AWS.
```

  // Create a WebSocket endpoint named "public".
  ws := nitric.NewWebsocket("public")

  // Initialize a KV store named "connections" with Get, Set, and Delete permissions.
  connections := nitric.NewKv("connections").Allow(keyvalue.KvStoreGet, keyvalue.KvStoreSet, keyvalue.KvStoreDelete)

  // Add event handlers here

  nitric.Run()
}
```

Here we're creating:

- A [WebSocket](/websockets) endpoint named `public`
- A [Key-Value store](/keyvalue) named `connections` to track WebSocket connections

From here, let's add some features to that function that allow us to manage connections and broadcast messages.

<Note>
  You could separate some or all of these event handlers into their own services
  if you prefer. For simplicity, we'll group them together in this guide.
</Note>

### Register connections on connect

```go
ws.On(websockets.EventType_Connect, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {
  err := connections.Set(context.TODO(), ctx.Request.ConnectionID(), map[string]interface{}{
    "connectionId": ctx.Request.ConnectionID(),
  })
  if err != nil {
    return
  }
})
```

### Remove connections on disconnect

```go
ws.On(websockets.EventType_Disconnect, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {

>   err := connections.Delete(context.TODO(), ctx.Request.ConnectionID())

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  err := connections.Delete(context.Background(), ctx.Request.ConnectionID())
```

  if err != nil {
    return
  }
})
```

### Broadcast messages to all connected clients

```go
ws.On(websockets.EventType_Message, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {
  connectionStream, err := connections.Keys(context.TODO())
  if err != nil {
    return
  }

  senderId := ctx.Request.ConnectionID()

  for {
    connectionId, err := connectionStream.Recv()
    if err != nil {
      break

>     }

Reviewer 2: Same as previous comment - don't let the data get lost silently

Reviewer 2: Maybe send an error back to the sender

    if connectionId == senderId {
      continue
    }

    message := fmt.Sprintf("%s: %s", senderId, ctx.Request.Message())

>     err = ws.Send(context.TODO(), connectionId, []byte(message))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    err = ws.Send(context.Background(), connectionId, []byte(message))
```

    if err != nil {
      return

>     }

Reviewer 2: Same comment about silent failure here

  }
})
```

### Bringing it all together

<details>
<summary>Your code should look like this:</summary>

> ```go

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```go title:services/websockets/main.go
```

    })
    if err != nil {
      return
    }
  })

  ws.On(websockets.EventType_Disconnect, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {
    err := connections.Delete(context.TODO(), ctx.Request.ConnectionID())
    if err != nil {
      return
    }
  })

  ws.On(websockets.EventType_Message, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {
    connectionStream, err := connections.Keys(context.TODO())
    if err != nil {
      return
    }

    senderId := ctx.Request.ConnectionID()

    for {
      connectionId, err := connectionStream.Recv()
      if err != nil {
        break
      }

      if connectionId == senderId {
        continue
      }

      message := fmt.Sprintf("%s: %s", senderId, ctx.Request.Message())
      err = ws.Send(context.TODO(), connectionId, []byte(message))
      if err != nil {
        return
      }
    }
  })

  nitric.Run()
}
```

</details>

Do a quick `go mod tidy` to make sure all new dependencies are resolved.

## Ok, let's run this thing!

Now that you have your WebSocket application defined with handlers for each event, it's time to test it locally. Update your `nitric.yaml` to point to the service at `websockets/main.go`:

```yaml
services:

>   - match: websockets/*

Reviewer 2: This path is wrong, on line 72 it said "Let's begin by setting up the WebSocket application. First, create a new folder called `websockets` **within the services directory**. Inside this folder, add a file named `main.go`, and include the following code"

I'm not sure the `nitric.yaml` file needs to be modified from the default in the template 🤷

Author: Agreed, its not required removed 72, and removed the updates to nitric.yaml

    runtime: go
    start: go run ./$SERVICE_PATH
```

```bash
nitric start
```

> Once it starts, the application will be ready to accept WebSocket connections. You can use a WebSocket client like Postman or any other WebSocket tool to test the application. Alternatively, you can use the [Nitric Dashboard](/get-started/foundations/projects/local-development#local-dashboard).

Reviewer 2: I think next steps showing how to test it with the Dashboard or a WS client would be handy, with details on how to find the local WS endpoint/URL

> We will keep it running for our tests.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this statement means.

## Deploy to the cloud

> At this point, you can deploy what you've built to any of the supported cloud providers. To do this, start by setting up your credentials and configuration for [AWS](/providers/pulumi/aws).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point, you can deploy what you've built to any of the supported cloud providers. In this example we'll deploy to AWS. Start by setting up your credentials and configuration for the [nitric/aws provider](/providers/pulumi/aws).
```

> Next, we'll need to create a `stack`. A stack represents a deployed instance of an application, which is a key value store of resources defined in your project. You might want separate stacks for each environment, such as stacks for `dev`, `test`, and `prod`. For now, let's start by creating a `dev` stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, we'll need to create a `stack file` (deployment target). A stack is a deployed instance of an application. You might want separate stacks for each environment, such as stacks for `dev`, `test`, and `prod`. For now, let's start by creating a file for the `dev` stack.
```

The `stack new` command below will create a stack named `dev` that uses the `aws` provider.

```bash
nitric stack new dev aws
```

> Continue by checking your stack file `nitric.dev.yaml` and adding in your preferred region. Let's use `us-east-1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Edit the stack file `nitric.dev.yaml` and set your preferred AWS region, for example `us-east-1`.
```

### AWS

<Note>
  You are responsible for staying within the limits of the free tier or any
  costs associated with deployment.
</Note>

> We called our stack `dev`. Let's try deploying it with the `up` command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's try deploying the stack with the `up` command:
```

```bash
nitric up
```

> When the deployment is complete, go to the relevant cloud console and you'll be able to see and interact with your WebSocket application.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should include a screenshot or mp4 screen recording of this step to help navigate the AWS console?

Alternatively we should create a docs page showing how to find the resource group nitric will deploy - that's pretty useful for finding all deployed resources in a stack and could be shared across multiple guides since it's consistent. I'll create a new issue for that if you agree (or you can).

Author: https://github.com/nitrictech/docs/issues/642

  "github.com/nitrictech/go-sdk/nitric/websockets"
)

func main() {
  // Create a WebSocket API named "public".
  ws := nitric.NewWebsocket("public")

  // Initialize a KV store named "connections" with Get, Set, and Delete permissions.
  connections := nitric.NewKv("connections").Allow(keyvalue.KvStoreGet, keyvalue.KvStoreSet, keyvalue.KvStoreDelete)

  // Add event handlers here

  nitric.Run()
}
```

Here we're creating:

- A [WebSocket](/websockets) API named `public`
- A [Key-Value store](/keyvalue) named `connections` to track client connections

From here, let's add some features to that function that allow us to manage connections and broadcast messages.

<Note>
  You could separate some or all of these event handlers into their own services
  if you prefer. For simplicity, we'll group them together in this guide.
</Note>

### Register connections on connect

```go
ws.On(websockets.EventType_Connect, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {
  err := connections.Set(context.Background(), ctx.Request.ConnectionID(), map[string]interface{}{
    "connectionId": ctx.Request.ConnectionID(),
  })
  if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("Error storing connection ID in KV store:", err)

>     return

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ctx.Response.Reject = true
```

    if err != nil {
      fmt.Println("Error sending message to connection ID", connectionId, ":", err)
      return
    }
  }
})
```

### Bringing it all together

<details>
<summary>Your code should look like this:</summary>

```go title:services/websockets/main.go
package main

import (
  "context"
  "fmt"

  "github.com/nitrictech/go-sdk/nitric"
  "github.com/nitrictech/go-sdk/nitric/keyvalue"
  "github.com/nitrictech/go-sdk/nitric/websockets"
)

func main() {
  // Create a WebSocket endpoint named "public".
  ws := nitric.NewWebsocket("public")

  // Initialize a KV store named "connections" with Get, Set, and Delete permissions.
  connections := nitric.NewKv("connections").Allow(keyvalue.KvStoreGet, keyvalue.KvStoreSet, keyvalue.KvStoreDelete)

  // Handle new WebSocket connections by storing the connection ID in the KV store.
  ws.On(websockets.EventType_Connect, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {
    err := connections.Set(context.Background(), ctx.Request.ConnectionID(), map[string]interface{}{
      "connectionId": ctx.Request.ConnectionID(),
    })
    if err != nil {
      fmt.Println("Error storing connection ID in KV store:", err)

>       return

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      ctx.Response.Reject = true
```

> export const description =

Reviewer 3: change to using frontmatter, see other mdx files

Reviewer 3: Also add tags

      return
    }
  })

  ws.On(websockets.EventType_Connect, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {
    err := connections.Set(context.TODO(), ctx.Request.ConnectionID(), map[string]interface{}{
      "connectionId": ctx.Request.ConnectionID(),
    })
    if err != nil {
      return
    }
  })

  ws.On(websockets.EventType_Disconnect, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {
    err := connections.Delete(context.TODO(), ctx.Request.ConnectionID())
    if err != nil {
      return
    }
  })

  ws.On(websockets.EventType_Message, func(ctx *websockets.Ctx) {
    connectionStream, err := connections.Keys(context.TODO())
    if err != nil {
      return
    }

    senderId := ctx.Request.ConnectionID()

    for {
      connectionId, err := connectionStream.Recv()
      if err != nil {
        break
      }

      if connectionId == senderId {
        continue
      }

      message := fmt.Sprintf("%s: %s", senderId, ctx.Request.Message())
      err = ws.Send(context.TODO(), connectionId, []byte(message))
      if err != nil {
        return
      }
    }
  })

  nitric.Run()
}
```

</details>

Do a quick `go mod tidy` to make sure all new dependencies are resolved.

## Ok, let's run this thing!

> Now that you have your WebSocket application defined with handlers for each event, it's time to test it locally.

Reviewer: Have to add second "```yaml" so suggestion formatting is correct.

```suggestion
Now that you have your WebSocket application defined with handlers for each event, it's time to test it locally.

Update your `nitric.yaml` to point to the service at `websockets/main.go`:

```yaml
services:
  - match: websockets/*
    runtime: go
    start: go run ./$SERVICE_PATH
```yaml
```

```bash
nitric start
```

Once it starts, the application will be ready to accept WebSocket connections. You can use a WebSocket client like Postman or any other WebSocket tool to test the application.

> We will keep it running for our tests. If you want to update your services, just save them, and they'll be reloaded automatically.

Reviewer: I don't think hot reloading is default any more.
```suggestion
We will keep it running for our tests.
```

---
title_seo: Building your first WebSocket Application with Go and Nitric

> description: Use the Nitric framework to easily build and deploy Go WebSocket applications for AWS, Azure or GCP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use the Nitric framework to easily build and deploy Go WebSocket applications for AWS.
```
